.. _Server Setup:

Server Setup
------------

To start the Artemis application server from the development
environment, first import the project into IntelliJ and then make sure
to install the Spring Boot plugins to run the main class
``de.tum.cit.aet.artemis.ArtemisApp``. Before the application runs, you
have to change some configuration options.
You can change the options directly in the file ``application-artemis.yml`` in the folder
``src/main/resources/config``. However, you have to be careful that you do not
accidentally commit your password. Therefore, we strongly recommend, to create a new file
``application-local.yml`` in the folder ``src/main/resources/config`` which is ignored by default.
You can override the following configuration options in this file.

.. code:: yaml

   artemis:
       repo-clone-path: ./repos/
       legal-path: ./legal/
       repo-download-clone-path: ./repos-download/
       bcrypt-salt-rounds: 11   # The number of salt rounds for the bcrypt password hashing. Lower numbers make it faster but more unsecure and vice versa.
                                # Please use the bcrypt benchmark tool to determine the best number of rounds for your system. https://github.com/ls1intum/bcrypt-Benchmark
       user-management:
           use-external: true
           password-reset:
                credential-provider: <provider> # The credential provider which users can log in though (e.g. TUMonline)
                links: # The password reset links for different languages
                    en: '<link>'
                    de: '<link>'
           external:
               url: https://external.ase.in.tum.de
               user: <username>    # e.g. ga12abc
               password: <password>
               admin-group-name: tumuser
           ldap:
               url: <url>
               user-dn: <user-dn>
               password: <password>
               base: <base>
       version-control:
           url: https://gitlab.ase.in.tum.de
           user: <username>    # e.g. ga12abc
           password: <password>
           token: <token>                 # VCS API token giving Artemis full Admin access.
       continuous-integration:
           url: https://jenkins.ase.in.tum.de
           user: <username>    # e.g. ga12abc
           token: <token>      # Enter a valid token generated by the CI system or leave this empty to use the fallback authentication user + password
           password: <password>
           # Key of the saved credentials for the VCS service
           # Jenkins: You have to specify the key from the credentials page in Jenkins under which the user and
           #          password for the VCS are stored
           vcs-credentials: <credentials key>
           # Key of the credentials for the Artemis notification token
           # Jenkins: You have to specify the key from the credentials page in Jenkins under which the notification token is stored
           notification-token: <credentials key>
           # The actual value of the notification token to check against in Artemis. This is the token that gets send with
           # every request the CI system makes to Artemis containing a new result after a build.
           # Jenkins: The token value you use for the Server Notification Plugin and is stored under the notification-token credential above
           authentication-token: <token>
       git:
           name: Artemis
           email: artemis@in.tum.de
       athena:
            # If you want to use Athena, look at the dedicated section in the config.

Change all entries with ``<...>`` with proper values, e.g. your TUM
Online account credentials to connect to the given instances. Alternatively, you can connect to your local instances. It’s not necessary to fill all the
fields, most of them can be left blank. Note that there is additional
information about the setup for programming exercises provided:

.. note::
   Be careful that you do not commit changes to ``application-artemis.yml``.
   To avoid this, follow the best practice when configuring your local development environment:

   1) Create a file named ``application-local.yml`` under ``src/main/resources/config``.
   2) Copy the contents of ``application-artemis.yml`` into the new file.
   3) Update configuration values in ``application-local.yml``.

   By default, changes to ``application-local.yml`` will be ignored by git so you don't accidentally
   share your credentials or other local configuration options. The run configurations contain a profile
   ``local`` at the end to make sure the ``application-local.yml`` is considered. You can create your own
   configuration files ``application-<name>.yml`` and then activate the profile ``<name>`` in the run
   configuration if you need additional customizations.

If you use a password, you need to adapt it in
``gradle/liquibase.gradle``.



Run the server via Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

| Artemis provides a Docker image named ``ghcr.io/ls1intum/artemis:<TAG/VERSION>``.
| The current develop branch is provided by the tag ``develop``.
| The latest release is provided by the tag ``latest``.
| Specific releases like ``5.7.1`` can be retrieved as ``ghcr.io/ls1intum/artemis:5.7.1``.
| Branches tied to a pull request can be obtained by using the tag ``PR-<PR NUMBER>``.


Dockerfile
""""""""""

You can find the latest Artemis Dockerfile at ``docker/artemis/Dockerfile``.

* The Dockerfile has `multiple stages <https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/>`__: A **builder** stage,
  building the ``.war`` file, an optional **external_builder** stage to import a pre-built ``.war`` file,
  a **war_file** stage to choose between the builder stages via build argument and a **runtime** stage with minimal
  dependencies just for running artemis.

* The Dockerfile defines three Docker volumes (at the specified paths inside the container):

    * **/opt/artemis/config:**

      This can be used to store additional configurations of Artemis in YAML files.
      The usage is optional, and we recommend using the environment files for overriding your custom configurations
      instead of using ``src/main/resources/application-local.yml`` as such an additional configuration file.
      The other configurations like ``src/main/resources/application.yml``, ... are built into the ``.war`` file and
      therefore are not needed in this directory.

      .. tip::
        Instead of mounting this config directory, you can also use environment variables for the configuration as
        defined by the
        `Spring relaxed binding <https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Relaxed-Binding-2.0#environment-variables>`__.
        You can either place those environment variables directly in the ``environment`` section,
        or create a `.env-file <https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/set-environment-variables/#substitute-with-an-env-file>`__.
        When starting an Artemis container directly with the Docker-CLI, an .env-file can also be given via the
        ``--env-file`` option.

        To ease the transition of an existing set of YAML configuration files into the environment variable style, a
        `helper script <https://github.com/b-fein/spring-yaml-to-env>`__ can be used.

    * **/opt/artemis/data:**

      This directory should be used for any data (e.g., local clone of repositories).
      This is preconfigured in the ``docker`` Java Spring profile (which sets the following values:
      ``artemis.repo-clone-path``, ``artemis.repo-download-clone-path``,
      ``artemis.course-archives-path``, ``artemis.submission-export-path`` ``artemis.legal-path``, and ``artemis.file-upload-path``).


    * **/opt/artemis/public/content:**

      This directory will be used for branding.
      You can specify a favicon here.

* The Dockerfile assumes that the mounted volumes are located on a file system with the following locale settings
  (see `#4439 <https://github.com/ls1intum/Artemis/issues/4439>`__ for more details):

    * LC_ALL ``en_US.UTF-8``
    * LANG ``en_US.UTF-8``
    * LANGUAGE ``en_US.UTF-8``

.. warning::
  **ARM64 Image builds** might run out of memory if not provided with enough memory and/or swap space.
  On a *Apple M1* we had to set the **Docker Desktop** memory limit to 12GB or more.

.. _Docker Debugging:

Debugging with Docker
"""""""""""""""""""""

| The Docker containers have the possibility to enable Java Remote Debugging via Java environment variables.
| Java Remote Debugging lets you use your preferred debugger connected to port 5005.
  For IntelliJ, you can use the `Remote Java Debugging for Docker` profile shipped in the git repository.

With the following Java environment variable, you can configure the Remote Java Debugging inside a container:

::

   _JAVA_OPTIONS="-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=*:5005"

| This is already pre-set in the Docker Compose **Artemis-Dev-MySQL** Setup.
| For issues at the startup, you might have to suspend the java command until a Debugger is connected.
  This is possible by setting ``suspend=y``.


Run the server via a run configuration in IntelliJ
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The project comes with some pre-configured run / debug configurations that are stored in the ``.idea`` directory.
When you import the project into IntelliJ the run configurations will also be imported.

The recommended way is to run the server and the client separately. This provides fast rebuilds of the server and hot
module replacement in the client.

* **Artemis (Server):** The server will be started separated from the client. The startup time decreases significantly.
* **Artemis (Client):** Will execute ``npm install`` and ``npm run start``. The client will be available at
  `http://localhost:9000/ <http://localhost:9000/>`__ with hot module replacement enabled (also see
  `Client Setup <#client-setup>`__).

Other run / debug configurations
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

* **Artemis (Server & Client):** Will start the server and the client. The client will be available at
  `http://localhost:8080/ <http://localhost:8080/>`__ with hot module replacement disabled.
* **Artemis (Server, Jenkins & GitLab):** The server will be started separated from the client with the profiles
  ``dev,jenkins,gitlab,artemis``.
* **Artemis (Server with Integrated Code Lifecycle):** The server will be started separated from the client with the profiles ``dev,localci,localvc,artemis``. To use this configuration, Docker needs to be running on your system as Integrated Code Lifecycle uses it to run build jobs.
* **Artemis (Server, LocalVC & LocalCI, Athena):** The server will be started separated from the client with ``athena`` profile and Local VC / CI enabled
  (see `Athena Service <#athena-service>`__).

Run the server with Spring Boot and Spring profiles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Artemis server should startup by running the main class
``de.tum.cit.aet.artemis.ArtemisApp`` using Spring Boot.

.. note::
    Artemis uses Spring profiles to segregate parts of the
    application configuration and make it only available in certain
    environments. For development purposes, the following program arguments
    can be used to enable the ``dev`` profile and the profiles for Jenkins and Gitlab:

::

   --spring.profiles.active=dev,jenkins,gitlab,artemis,scheduling

If you use IntelliJ (Community or Ultimate) you can set the active
profiles by

* Choosing ``Run | Edit Configurations...``
* Going to the ``Configuration Tab``
* Expanding the ``Environment`` section to reveal ``VM Options`` and setting them to
  ``-Dspring.profiles.active=dev,jenkins,gitlab,artemis,scheduling``

Set Spring profiles with IntelliJ Ultimate
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

If you use IntelliJ Ultimate, add the following entry to the section
``Active Profiles`` (within ``Spring Boot``) in the server run
configuration:

::

   dev,jenkins,gitlab,artemis,scheduling

Run the server with the command line (Gradle wrapper)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to run the application via the command line instead, make
sure to pass the active profiles to the ``gradlew`` command like this:

.. code:: bash

   ./gradlew bootRun --args='--spring.profiles.active=dev,jenkins,gitlab,artemis,scheduling'
