docs/user/plagiarism-check.rst, before:

.. _plagiarism-check:

Plagiarism checks
=================

.. contents:: Content of this document
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Plagiarism Check Overview
--------------------------

Artemis allows tutors and exercise instructors to check assignments submissions from students for plagiarism.
With this feature, different types of assignments can be checked in Artemis, including programming assignments, modeling assignments, and text assignments.
To perform the plagiarism check, the responsible tutors must initiate the checking process for a specific task. Below, we describe the plagiarism check workflows from the perspective of various Artemis users using a UML Activity Diagram.

.. _settings:

Settings
^^^^^^^^
|run-settings|

1. Similarity Threshold in % (minimum value 0, maximum value 100).

  Ignore comparisons whose similarity is below this threshold.
  A similarity of 0% means that there is no overlap between two submissions, a similarity of 50% means that about
  half of two submissions are identical.
  A similarity of 100% means that two submissions are completely identical.

2. Minimum Score in % (minimum value 0, maximum value 100).

  Consider only submissions with a score greater than or equal to this value.

3. Minimum Size.

  a. Default value: Consider only submissions whose size is greater or equal to this value.
  b. Modeling exercises: Consider only submissions that have at least as many modeling elements as the specified value.
  c. Text exercises: Consider only submissions that have at least as many words as the specified value.

Actions
^^^^^^^
|plagiarism-actions1|

.. note::
        Plagiarism detection can take a long time for large courses.
1. Detect plagiarism. The user can execute the plagiarism check using this action.

2. Rerun plagiarism detection. The user can rerun the plagiarism check by executing this action. It can be helpful to check the plagiarism with different settings mentioned in section.

3. Clean up. The user can clean up the latest plagiarism check results for the selected exercise. It helps to keep the database clean and safe storage capacity. Moreover, it should improve the overall system performance. To execute the clean-up action, the user must approve it by clicking ok on the dialog, as this action cleans all potentially approved or denied plagiarism cases.

|clean-up-dialog|

4. Download. The user can download the plagiarism results in JSON or CSV format to open them in a selected editor for the further analysis.

Results
^^^^^^^
After the plagiarism check was executed, the results can be expected in different views.

1. Overview of the similarity distribution. This statistical overview shows the similarity distribution based on the percentage as a histogram chart. The user can analyze the distribution quickly and adjust the plagiarism check settings as needed accordingly.
 |run-results|
2. Selected submission. When the user selects the submission from the submission list on the left side of the plagiarism run result view, new actions can be selected to initiate the plagiarism check workflow. We will provide further details to the workflow in the next section.
 |run-results-selected-submissions|

Plagiarism Check Workflow
------------------------

Tutors
^^^^^^
The tutors are responsible for checking the plagiarism attempts of students. They execute the plagiarism checks and mark the potential plagiarism candidates to notify the instructors.
This process is visualized in the following diagram.

|tutor-workflow|

1. Open the Exercise via: Course Management → Course → Exercises → Your Exercise".
2. Access the plagiarism tool as seen in the picture
 |exercise-page|

3. Run the Plagiarism Check.
 a. Tutor can adjust the similarity threshold and other settings as described in section :ref:`settings` if deemed necessary (most of the time not, depends on the exercise type).
 b. Checking big exercises can take a long time (sometimes multiple hours) and be very resource heavy → Start the checks at times when Artemis is less used
4. Start checking for plagiarism.
 a. Assess if the presented matches are real plagiarism or not.
 b. Depending on your assessment, either deny or confirm the match as plagiarism.
 c. Continue until the matches start to get "too different".


Instructors
^^^^^^^^^^^
The instructors can execute the same actions as tutors, additionally they are able to make a final decision on the particular confirmed plagiarism case.
The process is visualized in the following diagram.

|instructors-workflow|

1. Open the plagiarism cases via: Course Management → Course → Plagiarism Cases.
 |plagiarism-cases-navigation|

2. Overview the current status of all confirmed plagiarism cases by inspecting the management overview. The overview provides the following information about each confirmed case:
 |confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management|

 a. In how many comparisons the confirmed case appears.
 b. Student was notified or not.
 c. Student has responded or not.
 d. Final verdict.

3. Export the confirmed cases as CSV file to analyze them in another editor.
4. Select one confirmed case and navigate to the case detail view.
 |selected-confirmed-case|

5. Notify the student about the potential plagiarism case and ask him or her for statement.
 |student-notification|

6. Make a final verdict by selecting one of 3 available options. The final verdict must be approved by clicking ok in the dialog.
 |verdict-dialog|

 a. Point deduction in % (minimum value 0%, maximum 100). Deduct points and confirm  the verdict in the dialog.
 b. Warning. The instructor can write a warning message to the student and confirm the verdict by in the dialog.
 c. Plagiarism. Next steps must be made manually by contacting responsible persons in the university to mark the student grade as "Unterschleif".

Students
^^^^^^^^
After the student got a notification that the instructor asked for the statement, he or she has one week to respond. 
The process is visualized in the following diagram.

|student-workflow|

1. Open the notified plagiarism confirmed case via: Course Overview → Course → Exercise → Plagiarism Case.
 |student-plagiarism-case-navigation|

2. Reply the message of the instructor.
3. Wait for the final verdict.

.. |tutor-workflow| image:: plagiarism-check/workflow/tutor-workflow.png
    :width: 700
.. |plagiarism-actions1| image:: plagiarism-check/actions/plagiarism-actions1.png
    :width: 1000
.. |clean-up-dialog| image:: plagiarism-check/actions/clean-up-dialog.png
    :width: 500
.. |plagiarism-cases-navigation| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/plagiarism-cases-navigation.png
    :width: 1000
.. |confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management.png
    :width: 1000
.. |selected-confirmed-case| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/selected-confirmed-case.png
    :width: 1000
.. |verdict-dialog| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/point-deduction-verdict.png
    :width: 500
.. |student-notification| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/student-notification.png
    :width: 500
.. |instructors-workflow| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/instructors-workflow.png
    :width: 700
.. |student-plagiarism-case-navigation| image:: plagiarism-check/student/plagiarism-case-navigation.png
    :width: 1000
.. |student-workflow| image:: plagiarism-check/student/student-workflow.png
    :width: 700
.. |exercise-page| image:: plagiarism-check/tutor/exercise_page.png
    :width: 1000
.. |run-results| image:: plagiarism-check/results/run-results.png
    :width: 1000
.. |run-results-selected-submissions| image:: plagiarism-check/results/run-results-selected-submission.png
    :width: 1000
.. |run-settings| image:: plagiarism-check/tutor/running-check-settings.png
    :width: 1000

Commit message:

* Write an introduction section * Add some introduction sentences to the sectíons to get a better text flow

docs/user/plagiarism-check.rst, after:

.. _plagiarism-check:

Plagiarism checks
=================

.. contents:: Content of this document
    :local:
    :depth: 2

Introduction
--------------------------

Artemis allows tutors and exercise instructors to check assignments submissions from students for plagiarism.
With this feature, different types of assignments can be checked in Artemis, including programming assignments, modeling assignments, and text assignments.
To perform the plagiarism check, the responsible tutors must initiate the checking process for a specific exercise.
First, we give an overview of different available features of the plagiarism check.
Next, we explain the plagiarism check workflows from the perspective of various Artemis users, using a UML Activity Diagrams to visualize the process.

Plagiarism Check Overview
--------------------------
In this section we give an overview of available features of plagiarism check. We explain different configuration settings, possible user actions and present the plagiarism result views, which are accessible after plagiarism check run.

.. _settings:

Settings
^^^^^^^^
Before starting the plagiarism check, the user can configure different settings to get the best possible results.
|run-settings|

1. Similarity Threshold in % (minimum value 0, maximum value 100).

  Ignore comparisons whose similarity is below this threshold.
  A similarity of 0% means that there is no overlap between two submissions, a similarity of 50% means that about
  half of two submissions are identical.
  A similarity of 100% means that two submissions are completely identical.

2. Minimum Score in % (minimum value 0, maximum value 100).

  Consider only submissions with a score greater than or equal to this value.

3. Minimum Size.

  a. Default value: Consider only submissions whose size is greater or equal to this value.
  b. Modeling exercises: Consider only submissions that have at least as many modeling elements as the specified value.
  c. Text exercises: Consider only submissions that have at least as many words as the specified value.

Actions
^^^^^^^
The user can use different actions to run plagiarism check, inspect the results or improve the performance.
|plagiarism-actions1|

.. note::
        Plagiarism detection can take a long time for large courses.
1. Detect plagiarism. The user can execute the plagiarism check using this action.

2. Rerun plagiarism detection. The user can rerun the plagiarism check by executing this action. It can be helpful to check the plagiarism with different settings mentioned in section.

3. Clean up. The user can clean up the latest plagiarism check results for the selected exercise. It helps to keep the database clean and safe storage capacity. Moreover, it should improve the overall system performance. To execute the clean-up action, the user must approve it by clicking ok on the dialog, as this action cleans all potentially approved or denied plagiarism cases.

|clean-up-dialog|

4. Download. The user can download the plagiarism results in JSON or CSV format to open them in a selected editor for the further analysis.

Results
^^^^^^^
After the plagiarism check was executed, the results can be expected in different views.

1. Overview of the similarity distribution. This statistical overview shows the similarity distribution based on the percentage as a histogram chart. The user can analyze the distribution quickly and adjust the plagiarism check settings as needed accordingly.
 |run-results|
2. Selected submission. When the user selects the submission from the submission list on the left side of the plagiarism run result view, new actions can be selected to initiate the plagiarism check workflow. We will provide further details to the workflow in the next section.
 |run-results-selected-submissions|

Plagiarism Check Workflow
-------------------------

In this section, we explain the process of the plagiarism case detection process from different users' perspective.

Tutors
^^^^^^
The tutors are responsible for checking the plagiarism attempts of students. They execute the plagiarism checks and mark the potential plagiarism candidates to notify the instructors.
This process is visualized in the following diagram.

|tutor-workflow|

1. Open the Exercise via: Course Management → Course → Exercises → Your Exercise".
2. Access the plagiarism tool as seen in the picture
 |exercise-page|

3. Run the Plagiarism Check.
 a. Tutor can adjust the similarity threshold and other settings as described in section :ref:`settings` if deemed necessary (most of the time not, depends on the exercise type).
 b. Checking big exercises can take a long time (sometimes multiple hours) and be very resource heavy → Start the checks at times when Artemis is less used
4. Start checking for plagiarism.
 a. Assess if the presented matches are real plagiarism or not.
 b. Depending on your assessment, either deny or confirm the match as plagiarism.
 c. Continue until the matches start to get "too different".


Instructors
^^^^^^^^^^^
The instructors can execute the same actions as tutors, additionally they are able to make a final decision on the particular confirmed plagiarism case.
The process is visualized in the following diagram.

|instructors-workflow|

1. Open the plagiarism cases via: Course Management → Course → Plagiarism Cases.
 |plagiarism-cases-navigation|

2. Overview the current status of all confirmed plagiarism cases by inspecting the management overview. The overview provides the following information about each confirmed case:
 |confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management|

 a. In how many comparisons the confirmed case appears.
 b. Student was notified or not.
 c. Student has responded or not.
 d. Final verdict.

3. Export the confirmed cases as CSV file to analyze them in another editor.
4. Select one confirmed case and navigate to the case detail view.
 |selected-confirmed-case|

5. Notify the student about the potential plagiarism case and ask him or her for statement.
 |student-notification|

6. Make a final verdict by selecting one of 3 available options. The final verdict must be approved by clicking ok in the dialog.
 |verdict-dialog|

 a. Point deduction in % (minimum value 0%, maximum 100). Deduct points and confirm  the verdict in the dialog.
 b. Warning. The instructor can write a warning message to the student and confirm the verdict by in the dialog.
 c. Plagiarism. Next steps must be made manually by contacting responsible persons in the university to mark the student grade as "Unterschleif".

Students
^^^^^^^^
After the student got a notification that the instructor asked for the statement, he or she has one week to respond. 
The process is visualized in the following diagram.

|student-workflow|

1. Open the notified plagiarism confirmed case via: Course Overview → Course → Exercise → Plagiarism Case.
 |student-plagiarism-case-navigation|

2. Reply the message of the instructor.
3. Wait for the final verdict.

.. |tutor-workflow| image:: plagiarism-check/workflow/tutor-workflow.png
    :width: 700
.. |plagiarism-actions1| image:: plagiarism-check/actions/plagiarism-actions1.png
    :width: 1000
.. |clean-up-dialog| image:: plagiarism-check/actions/clean-up-dialog.png
    :width: 500
.. |plagiarism-cases-navigation| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/plagiarism-cases-navigation.png
    :width: 1000
.. |confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/confirmed-plagiarism-cases-management.png
    :width: 1000
.. |selected-confirmed-case| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/selected-confirmed-case.png
    :width: 1000
.. |verdict-dialog| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/point-deduction-verdict.png
    :width: 500
.. |student-notification| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/student-notification.png
    :width: 500
.. |instructors-workflow| image:: plagiarism-check/instructor/instructors-workflow.png
    :width: 700
.. |student-plagiarism-case-navigation| image:: plagiarism-check/student/plagiarism-case-navigation.png
    :width: 1000
.. |student-workflow| image:: plagiarism-check/student/student-workflow.png
    :width: 700
.. |exercise-page| image:: plagiarism-check/tutor/exercise_page.png
    :width: 1000
.. |run-results| image:: plagiarism-check/results/run-results.png
    :width: 1000
.. |run-results-selected-submissions| image:: plagiarism-check/results/run-results-selected-submission.png
    :width: 1000
.. |run-settings| image:: plagiarism-check/tutor/running-check-settings.png
    :width: 1000
